In this lesson, we'll look at uproperty. Let's make our variables available in the editor and
see what access specifiers and meta information are for property.
Press Ctrl + X. We remove our variables from the printTypes function and add them to the protected section of
our actor's header file. We make our variables class members, we can also
remove them from printStringTypes, because they will now be available in any function of our class.
Now we need to tell unreal that we want to see these variables in editor.
There is a keyword for this and uproperty is a macro. We have to mark
each variable with this macro at the top, so copy / paste the uproperty macro.
We will now make a small replacement. We will not use the int type further - the standard
C ++ integer type , we will use int32 - this is the built-in unreal type. This type guarantees
safety when compiling for different types of platforms, the int type can have a different
number of bytes on different platforms, the unreal engine is a cross-platform engine - so
it takes care of us and we can use int32 as an integer type. Let's mark
each uproperty with different access specifiers - these are parameters to the uproperty macro.
Let's start editor and see how they differ in the editor. The first specifier is EditAnywhere.
The second specifier is EditDefaultsOnly.
The third specifier is EditInstanceOnly.
Let's also mark the boolean variable IsDead with EditAnywhere.
And for HasWeapon, let the access specifier be VisibleAnywhere.
In fact, there are many different uproperty specifiers. I will attach a link to the document to the lecture,
where you can see, read what other specifiers are. In the training process, we will
touch on other specifiers, but to start, 4 data will be enough.
Launch editor.
Selecting our BaseGeometryActor in the object tree. Almost all of our variables
appeared in the details of the actor panel . We can edit them, change the values. Some are not
editable, but for a closer look, let's first remove our actor
from the scene. Let's go to the daddy with C ++ classes and create a child blueprint class. To do this,
right-click on our actor and select create blueprint class from the menu.
Let's name it BP underscore BaseGeometryActor. Click create blueprint
class and the blueprint editor opens. When adding a blueprint or our C ++
actor to the scene, a so-called instance is created, that is, an object of this class.
We can create as many instances as we want. Let's leave only one for now, delete the other two.
Open editor in parallel with our C ++ file and see
what the access specifiers mean. WeaponsNum has an EditAnywhere access specifier.
This variable is available for editing, both in the archetype - in the class in the default parameters,
and in the instance - the object on the scene. If we look in the detail panels we can see
that WeaponsNum is also editable here. KillsNum has the EditDefaultsOnly access specifier, which
means that we can edit this variable only in the default archetype settings.
We cannot edit this variable in the actor instance. If we look in the details panel,
then this variable is simply not there. Health has the EditInstanceOnly qualifier.
This is an inverse specifier, that is, this variable is not available in the default archype settings,
but it is available in the actor instance. In the details panel, we can edit this variable.
IsDead has the same qualifier as WeaponsNum - EditAnywhere. The boolean variable matches
in the editor checkbox. We can edit it both in the instance and in the default settings.
And the last variable HasWeapon has a VisibleAnywhere access specifier.
We observe it both in the archetype and in the object on the stage. The visible specifier
has mirror specifiers with edit, that is, VisibleDefaultsOnly and VisibleInstanceOnly.
The only difference is that these
variables will not be available for editing, but will be available only for viewing.
Let's finalize the uproperty. We can indicate the category to which
this property belongs - this is some meta information, which will change in the editor in just
a few minutes. We typed category. Let's name our category, for example, Weapon.
Copy the category to the KillsNum variable. Let's call it Stat.
Health will have a Health category. IsDead has Health too.
And HasWeapon has a Weapon category. Go to .cpp file, let's uncomment printTypes.
Let's remove from the function one log with Health, which is accurate. We won't need it anymore.
Let's add another log at the top - LogTemp.
The log level is display.
Write actor name in the text.
Format Specifier % s
Each actor has a GetName function. This function returns the name of the current actor instance.
If we find a function, we will see that it returns the FString type.
Therefore, we must use the asterisk operator, which you and I already know.
Let's change for beauty LogTemp to LogBaseGeometry (for our category)
Display also with a capital letter, and let's change all display to warning.
To make it easier for us to look at the output to the console.
We launch the editor.
Open the blueprint actor class.
Our variables are grouped into categories: Weapon, Stat, Health - these are panels
that you can open / close. This is great for organizing your data.
Returning to the map, add another instance of our BaseGeometryActor to the scene.
And we will change the set of parameters on each of these objects. Let the first actor have
WeaponsNum = 100, Health also 100 and IsDead = false. The second actor has WeaponsNum = 1,
Health = 0.01 and IsDead = true. We are saved. Open the log, clear it and press play.
We see with you two conclusions. There are two objects on the scene and each of them has BeginPlay triggered.
And each of them has its own set of variables.
We can also see that the name of each of the two objects has been printed. She's a little weird.
It is generated by the engine. If we hover over the actor in the object tree, we will see the IdName,
which corresponds to what was printed.